---
layout: post
title: "A Journey's Start"
categories: blog
author:
- msa
---

How a single idea became my personal mega-project.

## <span style = "color:#e1a846">An Idea</span>

There are moments when you suddenly get an idea of something absolutely crazy. It just comes to your mind when you are riding the bus to work or when you are having dinner or when you are sitting on the toilet. You tell yourself "No way, this sounds easier than it is" or "That's just impossible to do alone. I should focus on smaller projects". Maybe you'd ask friends or family members how they like your idea and what they think about it. Usually though, their feedback strenghtens your doubts and you'd just put your thoughts away until eventually forgetting your unique idea.

Unless...

You refuse to let those doubts and negative thoughts gain the upper hand and actually try something for once!

I had this idea of creating a complete city within Blender one day and I just couldn't let go of it. Something like GTA in low-poly style!

## <span style = "color:#e1a846">Taking Form</span>

I've always had a weakness for large U.S. cities like New York, Miami or Los Angeles (I admit: I've never even been close to the States, but it is my wish to visit one day). I am amazed by the height of the skyscrapers, interested in how traffic and public transportation works, how the districts are arranged, how the city evolved over time. That's maybe why the development of GTA V absolutely astonishes me: there is so much detail _everywhere_ and such a breathtaking level of realism. Just have a look at the city map of [Los Santos][id1]! It's made after parts of real Los Angeles, but Rockstar still changed quite a lot. Did you know they even added [bus routes][id2]?

So one warm August day when I was at work (let's hope my boss doesn't read this blog), the idea of creating my very own large city came to my mind. And instead of putting this idea to the shelf because it's "too much for a single person to handle", I let it grow and develop.

Soon I had a rough idea about landscape shape and city layout in my mind and began with more detailed planning.

## <span style = "color:#e1a846">No Project Without a Plan</span>

Every project needs a plan. I'm using [Trello][id3] mostly where I manage my general overview (I have to write down all the stuff about the city that comes to my mind, otherwise I tend to forget too much about my own creation), milestones, tasks that need to be done, tasks that are currently in progress, tasks that were rejected, useful links & resources and new ideas. Note: even if the project is personal, milestones are a fundamental part of it. They help me define step-by-step goals and force me to keep to deadlines. Of course, there is no need to stress myself, but without milestones I'd tend to be (too) lazy sometimes.
Additionally I'm a fan of hand-written stuff, that's why lots of info goes to a notepad as well.

I'm using [Github][id4] as a project repository (and also to maintain this blog via [Github Pages][id5]) and the LFS integration in order to handle large repositories.

## <span style = "color:#e1a846">Humble Beginnings</span>

This is just the start of a series of blogs and a creative journey. There might not be a lot of content right now, but the blog will grow in parallel to the project. I'd be happy if you join the ride from time to time - I guarantee, there's lots of interesting content to come!

_Stay creative!_

Previous post: None, this is the very first post!
Next: [How to Plan a City][id6]


[id1]: https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/degta/images/1/12/Los_Santos%2C_Los_Santos_County.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/1492?cb=20140902202521
[id2]: https://i.imgur.com/Wkoxlib.jpeg
[id3]: https://trello.com
[id4]: https://github.com
[id5]: https://pages.github.com/
[id6]: https://msantner.github.io/san_cubec_blog/blog/2021/08/23/Post0002.html